.TH NETKIT-JH 7 2022-09-04 Linux "Netkit-JH Manual"
.SH NAME
Netkit-JH \- the network emulation toolkit
.SH DESCRIPTION
Netkit-JH is a self-contained, open-source solution for the emulation of
computer networks.
The environment involves implementing each network host as a User-mode Linux
(UML) virtual machine and layer 1 links as virtual collision domains (hubs).
.PP
Each virtual machine can have an arbitrary number of network interfaces.
Machines can also have zero network interfaces,
however this is not the application Netkit-JH has been thought for.
Netkit is not a host emulator, it is a network emulator.
.PP
Virtual machines use a regular Debian filesystem which has a variety of
networking utilities installed on top such as routing daemons, servers,
firewalls, and diagnostic tools.
The
.BR vpackage (1)
script can be used to add new files or packages to the filesystem.
.PP
The kernel used by the machines is a standard Linux kernel which is compiled to
be run as a userspace process; this is User-mode Linux (UML).
More information on UML can be found on the kernel source tree and in the User
Mode Linux book (Jeff Dike, 2006).
.PP
Netkit-JH commands are split into two distinct categories:
\(dqvcommands\(dq and \(dqlcommands\(dq.
The former are used to manage single virtual machines or the Netkit-JH install
itself.
The \(dqlcommands\(dq manage Netkit-JH \(dqlaboratories\(dq,
which are directories defining the configurations of multiple virtual machines
in a network.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B NETKIT_HOME
All Netkit-JH commands require that the
.B NETKIT_HOME
variable is set the path of the directory which Netkit-JH is installed in.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I netkit.conf
.TQ
.BI NETKIT_HOME /netkit.conf.default
Netkit-JH stores its configuration settings inside a file named
.IR netkit.conf ,
which can be placed in up to three locations to change its scope.
The default settings are assigned in
.IR netkit.conf.default ;
the existence of this file is required in order to make Netkit-JH work.
See
.BR netkit.conf (5)
for information about these files.
.SH AUTHORS
Netkit-JH is maintained by Adam Bromiley, Joshua Hawking,
and other important contributors who are current or graduate students of WMG,
University of Warwick.
A full list of contributors can be found in copyright notices at the top of
source files.
.PP
Netkit-JH is a fork of the now deprecated Netkit-NG,
maintained by Julien Iguchi-Cartigny of the XLIM Research Institute,
which itself is a fork of the original project (Netkit).
Netkit was written by academics at the Computer Networks Laboratory of Roma Tre
University before being abandoned in favour of Kathará,
which utilises Python and Docker instead of Bash and UML.
All iterations of Netkit have introduced important new features and upgraded
existing ones.
.PP
The Netkit-JH team greatly appreciates the work of all previous and current
maintainers.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
To report a bug with Netkit-JH,
please create an issue with the recommended template on the project's
.UR https://github.com/netkit-jh/netkit-jh-build/issues
GitHub repository
.UE .
For a more complex bug that you know how to fix,
please consider writing a patch and sending it as a pull request to the GitHub.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Like its predecessors,
Netkit-JH is released under the terms of the GNU General Public License,
version 3 or later. For a copy of the license see the included
.I LICENSE.txt
file or, if not present,
.UR http://www.gnu.org/licenses/
.UE .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lclean (1),
.BR lcrash (1),
.BR lhalt (1),
.BR linfo (1),
.BR lstart (1),
.BR ltest (1),
.BR vclean (1),
.BR vcommand (1),
.BR vconf (1),
.BR vconnect (1),
.BR vcrash (1),
.BR vdump (1),
.BR vhalt (1),
.BR vlist (1),
.BR vpackage (1),
.BR vstart (1),
.BR lab.conf (5),
.BR lab.dep (5),
.BR netkit.conf (5)
.SS Resources recommended for learning more about UML or Netkit
.TP
.B Netkit-JH's GitHub repository
.TQ GitHub repository
.UR https://github.com/netkit-jh/netkit-jh-build
.UE
For the most up-to-date information on new releases.
Please use the GitHub for raising awareness of bugs and for requesting or
adding new features.
.TP
.B Netkit-JH's home page
.TQ
.UR https://netkit-jh.github.io/
.UE
For further documentation and tutorials on using Netkit-JH.
.TP
.B Netkit's home page
.TQ
.UR https://www.netkit.org/
.UE
The original Netkit project.
It is now deprecated in favour of Kathará, but the published research papers on
the development and workings of the project are fascinating.
.TP
.B Netkit-NG's home page
.TQ
.UR https://netkit-ng.github.io/
.UE
A fork of Netkit after it was abandoned but before Kathará was developed.
The kernel and filesystem was updated alongside the addition of the
.BR vdump (1)
script.
This is what Netkit-JH forked off from.
.TP
.B Kathará's home page
.TQ
.UR https://www.kathara.org/
.UE
The modern iteration of the original Netkit project by the original developers.
Kathará is based on Python and Docker, not Bash and UML.
.TP
.B User-mode Linux's home page
.TQ
.UR http://user-mode-linux.sourceforge.net/
.UE
The official home page of UML.
There are links to projects using UML, mailing lists, and other resources.
.TP
.B The Linux Kernel Archives
.TQ
.UR https://www.kernel.org/
.UE
Hosts a handy how-to guide to UML.
.TP
.B User Mode Linux
.TQ
Jeff Dike (2006)
The official UML book, authored by UML's creator and maintainer.
Offers the most in-depth and accurate information regarding UML,
including guides on more complex applications of the software.
.PP
Please also consider referring to the
.I README.mdown
file provided with the program for information on building and installing
Netkit-JH.
