.TH LCLEAN 1 2022-08-24 Linux "Netkit-JH Manual"
.SH NAME
lclean \- clean temporary files created after launching a Netkit-JH lab
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lclean
.RI [ OPTION "]... [" MACHINE ]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Remove temporary files (that is,
.IR .ready ", " .testdone ", and " readyfor.test " files)"
and filesystems
.RI ( .disk " files)"
created and used by Netkit-JH in a lab directory.
.PP
If invoked with no non-option arguments,
.B lclean
removes temporary files relating to all virtual machines that comprise the lab.
Providing a list of
.I MACHINE
names limits removal of files to those just relating to the specified machines.
The
.I readyfor.test
file is always deleted.
Any invalid
.IR MACHINE s
will be skipped.
.PP
Removal of filesystems
.RI ( .disk " files)"
implies that the corresponding virtual machines' contents are reverted to their
original state when the lab is restarted.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS General options
.TP
.BI \-d " DIR"
Clean up the lab inside
.IR DIR .
By default, the cleaning process takes place in the current directory.
.SS Miscellaneous options
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display a usage message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Show which files are being deleted.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Output version information and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B NETKIT_HOME
All Netkit-JH commands require that the
.B NETKIT_HOME
variable is set the path of the directory which Netkit-JH is installed in.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I lab.conf
Located in the lab directory,
.I lab.conf
is used to get lab information from the special lab variables.
If nonexistent an error will be shown but the core functionality of
.B lclean
will not be affected.
.SH NOTES
Despite sounding similar,
.B lclean
is completely unrelated in functionality to
.BR vclean (1).
While
.B lclean
removes temporary files inside a lab directory,
.BR vclean (1)
operates on the entire Netkit-JH install by terminating hanging processes,
removing unused sockets and log files,
and restoring network settings changed for tap interfaces.
.SH AUTHORS
Netkit-JH is maintained by Adam Bromiley, Joshua Hawking,
and other important contributors who are current or graduate students of WMG,
University of Warwick.
A full list of contributors can be found in copyright notices at the top of
source files.
.PP
Netkit-JH is a fork of the now deprecated Netkit-NG,
maintained by Julien Iguchi-Cartigny of the XLIM Research Institute,
which itself is a fork of the original project (Netkit).
Netkit was written by academics at the Computer Networks Laboratory of Roma Tre
University before being abandoned in favour of Kathará,
which utilises Python and Docker instead of Bash and UML.
All iterations of Netkit have introduced important new features and upgraded
existing ones.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
To report a bug with Netkit-JH,
please create an issue with the recommended template on the project's
.UR https://github.com/netkit-jh/netkit-jh-build/issues
GitHub repository
.UE .
For a more complex bug that you know how to fix,
please consider writing a patch and sending it as a pull request to the GitHub.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Like its predecessors,
Netkit-JH is released under the terms of the GNU General Public License,
version 3 or later. For a copy of the license see the included
.I LICENSE.txt
file or, if not present,
.UR http://www.gnu.org/licenses/
.UE .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lcrash (1),
.BR lhalt (1),
.BR linfo (1),
.BR lstart (1),
.BR ltest (1),
.BR vclean (1)
