.TH LHALT 1 2022-08-25 Linux "Netkit-JH Manual"
.SH NAME
lhalt \- halt machines of a Netkit-JH lab
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lhalt
.RI [ OPTION "]... [" MACHINE ]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Gracefully shut down all running virtual machines of a Netkit-JH lab.
If the user wishes to retain virtual machines' filesystems
.RI ( .disk " files)"
without risk of corruption, this method should be used over
.BR lcrash (1).
.PP
The UML management console client,
.BR uml_mconsole ,
is used to invoke the Ctrl-Alt-Del handler of
.BR init (8).
Typically this would trigger a reboot with
.BR shutdown (8)
however the Netkit-JH filesystem has a modified
.I inittab
file which changes this behaviour to shutdown immediately.
.PP
If invoked with no non-option arguments,
.B lhalt
shuts down all virtual machines that comprise the lab.
Providing a list of
.IR MACHINE s
allows the user to be explicit with what machines are shut down.
Any invalid
.I MACHINE
names will be ignored.
.PP
To halt a machine that may not have been launched from a Netkit-JH lab
(or to halt multiple machines from different labs), use
.BR vhalt (1).
.SH OPTIONS
.SS General options
.TP
.BI \-d " DIR"
Shutdown the lab inside
.IR DIR .
By default, the current directory is used.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-list
Show a list of virtual machines still running after halting the lab with
.BR vlist (1).
.SS Options affecting how machines are halted
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quick
Disable checking if machines have actually shut down.
This quickens the halt process but no warnings can be made if a machine fails
to shut down.
Unlike
.BR lcrash (1),
this does not affect how the machines shut down (i.e.,
if a machine fails to halt, running without
.B \-\-quick
will not affect the outcome).
It cannot be used in conjunction with
.BR \-\-remove\-fs .
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-remove\-fs
After halting a machine delete its filesystem
.RI ( .disk " file),
if exists.
This is incompatible with
.BR \-\-quick .
.SS Miscellaneous options
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display a usage message and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Output version information and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B NETKIT_HOME
All Netkit-JH commands require that the
.B NETKIT_HOME
variable is set the path of the directory which Netkit-JH is installed in.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I netkit.conf
.TQ
.BI NETKIT_HOME /netkit.conf.default
Netkit-JH stores its configuration settings inside a file named
.IR netkit.conf ,
which can be placed in up to three locations to change its scope.
The default settings are assigned in
.IR netkit.conf.default ;
the existence of this file is required in order to make Netkit-JH work.
See
.BR netkit.conf (5)
for information about these files.
.TP
.I lab.conf
Located in the lab directory,
.I lab.conf
is used to read the
.B LAB_MACHINES
configuration variable if the user wishes to override the default behaviour of
determining the hostname list from the directory listing.
The file is also used to get lab information from the special lab variables.
If the file is nonexistent, an error will be shown but the core functionality
of
.B lhalt
will not be affected.
See
.BR lab.conf (5)
for more information.
.SH AUTHORS
Netkit-JH is maintained by Adam Bromiley, Joshua Hawking,
and other important contributors who are current or graduate students of WMG,
University of Warwick.
A full list of contributors can be found in copyright notices at the top of
source files.
.PP
Netkit-JH is a fork of the now deprecated Netkit-NG,
maintained by Julien Iguchi-Cartigny of the XLIM Research Institute,
which itself is a fork of the original project (Netkit).
Netkit was written by academics at the Computer Networks Laboratory of Roma Tre
University before being abandoned in favour of Kathará,
which utilises Python and Docker instead of Bash and UML.
All iterations of Netkit have introduced important new features and upgraded
existing ones.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
To report a bug with Netkit-JH,
please create an issue with the recommended template on the project's
.UR https://github.com/netkit-jh/netkit-jh-build/issues
GitHub repository
.UE .
For a more complex bug that you know how to fix,
please consider writing a patch and sending it as a pull request to the GitHub.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Like its predecessors,
Netkit-JH is released under the terms of the GNU General Public License,
version 3 or later. For a copy of the license see the included
.I LICENSE.txt
file or, if not present,
.UR http://www.gnu.org/licenses/
.UE .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lclean (1),
.BR lcrash (1),
.BR linfo (1),
.BR lstart (1),
.BR ltest (1),
.BR vhalt (1),
.BR vlist (1),
.BR lab.conf (5),
.BR netkit.conf (5)
