.TH LINFO 1 2022-08-30 Linux "Netkit-JH Manual"
.SH NAME
linfo \- show information about a Netkit-JH lab
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B linfo
.RI [ OPTION ]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Display information about a Netkit-JH lab without running it.
Information is extracted from the
.I lab.conf
file and lab directory contents.
Optionally, a PNG file displaying the network's link layer topology can be
generated.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS General options
.TP
.BI \-d " DIR"
Crash the lab inside
.IR DIR .
By default, the current directory is used.
Unlike other lcommands, multiple directories can be specified with repeat
.B \-d
flags.
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-map =\fIFILE\fR
Draw the lab's link layer topology as a PNG to
.IR FILE .
This requires installation of the Graphviz package.
.TP
.BR \-a "[\fIGLOB\fR], " \-\-auto [=\fIGLOB\fR]
Find sibling directores to the current working directory which will be
considered as parts of the same lab. Without an argument, these will be deduced
as folders with the same name as the working directory except the final
character\(emit will match using the parameter expansion
.IR ${PWD%?}*/ .
I.e., a working directory of
.I /home/user/lab3a
will add all directories of the form
.IR /home/user/lab3*
to the lab
.RI ( /home/user/lab3a ", " /home/user/lab3b ", " /home/user/lab3c ", etc)."
.IP
To override the default behaviour, a
.I GLOB
can be provided.
Note: because this argument is optional it must be attached to the short option
.RB ( \-a \fIGLOB\fR)
or separated to the long option with an equals sign
.RB ( \-\-auto =\fIGLOB\fR).
.IP
This option may be used in conjunction with
.BR \-d .
.SS Miscellaneous options
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display a usage message and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Output version information and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B NETKIT_HOME
All Netkit-JH commands require that the
.B NETKIT_HOME
variable is set the path of the directory which Netkit-JH is installed in.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I netkit.conf
.TQ
.BI NETKIT_HOME /netkit.conf.default
Netkit-JH stores its configuration settings inside a file named
.IR netkit.conf ,
which can be placed in up to three locations to change its scope.
The default settings are assigned in
.IR netkit.conf.default ;
the existence of this file is required in order to make Netkit-JH work.
See
.BR netkit.conf (5)
for information about these files.
.TP
.I lab.conf
Located in the lab directory,
.I lab.conf
is used to read the
.B LAB_MACHINES
configuration variable if the user wishes to override the default behaviour of
determining the hostname list from the directory listing.
The file is also used to get lab information from the special lab variables.
If the file is nonexistent,
.B linfo
will be unable to determine the network's topology for
.BR \-\-map .
See
.BR lab.conf (5)
for more information.
.TP
.I lab.dep
Located in the lab directory,
.I lab.dep
is used by
.B linfo
to determine if the lab supports parallel startup.
See
.BR lab.dep (5)
for more information.
.SH AUTHORS
Netkit-JH is maintained by Adam Bromiley, Joshua Hawking,
and other important contributors who are current or graduate students of WMG,
University of Warwick.
A full list of contributors can be found in copyright notices at the top of
source files.
.PP
Netkit-JH is a fork of the now deprecated Netkit-NG,
maintained by Julien Iguchi-Cartigny of the XLIM Research Institute,
which itself is a fork of the original project (Netkit).
Netkit was written by academics at the Computer Networks Laboratory of Roma Tre
University before being abandoned in favour of Kathará,
which utilises Python and Docker instead of Bash and UML.
All iterations of Netkit have introduced important new features and upgraded
existing ones.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
To report a bug with Netkit-JH,
please create an issue with the recommended template on the project's
.UR https://github.com/netkit-jh/netkit-jh-build/issues
GitHub repository
.UE .
For a more complex bug that you know how to fix,
please consider writing a patch and sending it as a pull request to the GitHub.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Like its predecessors,
Netkit-JH is released under the terms of the GNU General Public License,
version 3 or later. For a copy of the license see the included
.I LICENSE.txt
file or, if not present,
.UR http://www.gnu.org/licenses/
.UE .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lclean (1),
.BR lcrash (1),
.BR lhalt (1),
.BR lstart (1),
.BR ltest (1),
.BR lab.conf (5),
.BR lab.dep (5),
.BR netkit.conf (5)
