.TH VCOMMAND 1 2022-08-31 Linux "Netkit-JH Manual"
.SH NAME
vcommand \- execute a command on a Netkit-JH machine via its tmux session
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vcommand
.RI [ OPTION "]... " MACHINE " [" COMMAND ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Send a shell
.I COMMAND
to a running Netkit-JH
.I MACHINE
via its tmux session and send back its output.
The
.I COMMAND
is sent as a string literal to the tmux session with
.BR send\-keys ,
making the user responsible for sufficient argument quoting and escaping.
.PP
.B vcommand
relies on the host having an active tmux session,
so it must have been invoked with a
.B VM_CON0
Netkit-JH variable value of
.B tmux
(possible by setting
.I netkit.conf
appropriately or by using
.BR vstart "'s " \-\-con0 " or " \-\-tmux\-attached / \-\-tmux\-detached ).
Because there is only one shell instance per tmux session,
sending multiple commands at once or when it is attached and being used may
cause undesirable behaviour;
.B send\-keys
provides access to the input of the machine's terminal not an isolated shell.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS General options
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-timeout =\fIN\fR
Wait
.I N
seconds after entering the command before reading its output.
The default value is one second.
If a command takes a while to execute, consider increasing this value.
.SS Miscellaneous options
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display a usage message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Display debugging messages.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Output version information and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B NETKIT_HOME
All Netkit-JH commands require that the
.B NETKIT_HOME
variable is set the path of the directory which Netkit-JH is installed in.
.SH AUTHORS
Netkit-JH is maintained by Adam Bromiley, Joshua Hawking,
and other important contributors who are current or graduate students of WMG,
University of Warwick.
A full list of contributors can be found in copyright notices at the top of
source files.
.PP
Netkit-JH is a fork of the now deprecated Netkit-NG,
maintained by Julien Iguchi-Cartigny of the XLIM Research Institute,
which itself is a fork of the original project (Netkit).
Netkit was written by academics at the Computer Networks Laboratory of Roma Tre
University before being abandoned in favour of Kathará,
which utilises Python and Docker instead of Bash and UML.
All iterations of Netkit have introduced important new features and upgraded
existing ones.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
To report a bug with Netkit-JH,
please create an issue with the recommended template on the project's
.UR https://github.com/netkit-jh/netkit-jh-build/issues
GitHub repository
.UE .
For a more complex bug that you know how to fix,
please consider writing a patch and sending it as a pull request to the GitHub.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Like its predecessors,
Netkit-JH is released under the terms of the GNU General Public License,
version 3 or later. For a copy of the license see the included
.I LICENSE.txt
file or, if not present,
.UR http://www.gnu.org/licenses/
.UE .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR vconnect (1),
.BR vstart (1),
.BR netkit.conf (5)
