.TH VCONNECT 1 2022-08-31 Linux "Netkit-JH Manual"
.SH NAME
vconnect \- attach to the tmux session of a running Netkit-JH machine
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vconnect
.RI [ OPTION "]... " MACHINE ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Attach to the tmux session of a Netkit-JH machine or terminate an existing one.
Like
.BR vcommand (1),
.B vconnect
relies on the running machine having an active tmux session;
it should have been launched with a
.B VM_CON0
Netkit-JH variable value of
.B tmux
(possible by setting
.I netkit.conf
appropriately or by using
.BR vstart "'s " \-\-con0 " or " \-\-tmux\-attached / \-\-tmux\-detached ).
.SH OPTIONS
.SS General options
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-list
List all running sessions on the \(dqnetkit\(dq tmux server.
.TP
.BR \-k ", " \-\-kill
Terminate the
.IR MACHINE 's
already-running tmux session (if exists).
.TP
.B \-\-kill\-all
Terminate all running sessions on the \(dqnetkit\(dq tmux server.
.SS Options affecting how a session is attached to
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-terminal
Connect to the tmux session in a new terminal window.
The terminal emulator used depends on the
.B TERM_TYPE
Netkit-JH configuration variable.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-retry\-count =\fIN\fR
Maximum number of connection attempts that should be made.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-interval =\fIN\fR
Number of seconds to wait between successive connection attempts.
.SS Miscellaneous options
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display a usage message and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Output version information and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B NETKIT_HOME
All Netkit-JH commands require that the
.B NETKIT_HOME
variable is set the path of the directory which Netkit-JH is installed in.
.SH AUTHORS
Netkit-JH is maintained by Adam Bromiley, Joshua Hawking,
and other important contributors who are current or graduate students of WMG,
University of Warwick.
A full list of contributors can be found in copyright notices at the top of
source files.
.PP
Netkit-JH is a fork of the now deprecated Netkit-NG,
maintained by Julien Iguchi-Cartigny of the XLIM Research Institute,
which itself is a fork of the original project (Netkit).
Netkit was written by academics at the Computer Networks Laboratory of Roma Tre
University before being abandoned in favour of Kathará,
which utilises Python and Docker instead of Bash and UML.
All iterations of Netkit have introduced important new features and upgraded
existing ones.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
To report a bug with Netkit-JH,
please create an issue with the recommended template on the project's
.UR https://github.com/netkit-jh/netkit-jh-build/issues
GitHub repository
.UE .
For a more complex bug that you know how to fix,
please consider writing a patch and sending it as a pull request to the GitHub.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Like its predecessors,
Netkit-JH is released under the terms of the GNU General Public License,
version 3 or later. For a copy of the license see the included
.I LICENSE.txt
file or, if not present,
.UR http://www.gnu.org/licenses/
.UE .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR vcommand (1),
.BR vstart (1),
.BR netkit.conf (5)
