.TH VCONF 1 2022-08-31 Linux "Netkit-JH Manual"
.SH NAME
vconf \- attach network interfaces to running Netkit-JH machines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vconf
.RI [ OPTION "]... " MACHINE
.SH DESCRIPTION
Attach or remove network interfaces to a running Netkit-JH virtual
.IR MACHINE .
.B vconf
uses the UML management console client,
.IR uml_mconsole ,
to send the machine a
.BR config or remove
signal alongside the network interface's configuration data.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS General options
.TP
.BR \-\-eth \fIN\fR=\fIDOMAIN\fR
Add a network interface called
.RI \(dqeth N \(dq,
where
.I N
is a number between 0 and
.BI MAX_INTERFACES \-1
(defined in the Netkit-JH configuration file) inclusive.
.I DOMAIN
is the Netkit-JH collision domain that the interface should be attached to.
\(dqTap\(dq domains may also be created.
If
.I DOMAIN
is an empty string, the interface will removed from the machine.
The syntax for this option is the same as in
.BR vstart ,
so refer to
.BR vstart (1)
for more information.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-dry\-run ", " \-\-just\-print ", " \-\-recon
Do not actually manage the interfaces of a machine,
just show which commands would be executed.
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-user =\fIUSERNAME\fR
Manage interfaces for a machine owned by a different user.
The special username
.B \-
denotes all users and will cause
.B vconf
to manage the first host reported by
.IR "vlist \-\-user=\- MACHINE" .
By default, interfaces are managed on machines owned by the current user.
.SS Miscellaneous options
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display a usage message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Show commands being ran.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Output version information and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B NETKIT_HOME
All Netkit-JH commands require that the
.B NETKIT_HOME
variable is set the path of the directory which Netkit-JH is installed in.
.SH AUTHORS
Netkit-JH is maintained by Adam Bromiley, Joshua Hawking,
and other important contributors who are current or graduate students of WMG,
University of Warwick.
A full list of contributors can be found in copyright notices at the top of
source files.
.PP
Netkit-JH is a fork of the now deprecated Netkit-NG,
maintained by Julien Iguchi-Cartigny of the XLIM Research Institute,
which itself is a fork of the original project (Netkit).
Netkit was written by academics at the Computer Networks Laboratory of Roma Tre
University before being abandoned in favour of Kathará,
which utilises Python and Docker instead of Bash and UML.
All iterations of Netkit have introduced important new features and upgraded
existing ones.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
To report a bug with Netkit-JH,
please create an issue with the recommended template on the project's
.UR https://github.com/netkit-jh/netkit-jh-build/issues
GitHub repository
.UE .
For a more complex bug that you know how to fix,
please consider writing a patch and sending it as a pull request to the GitHub.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Like its predecessors,
Netkit-JH is released under the terms of the GNU General Public License,
version 3 or later. For a copy of the license see the included
.I LICENSE.txt
file or, if not present,
.UR http://www.gnu.org/licenses/
.UE .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR vlist (1),
.BR vstart (1),
.BR lab.conf (5),
.BR netkit.conf (5)
