.TH VDUMP 1 2022-09-01 Linux "Netkit-JH Manual"
.SH NAME
vdump \- dump packets from a Netkit-JH virtual hub
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vdump
.I DOMAIN
.SH DESCRIPTION
Dump packets from a Netkit-JH virtual hub as a PCAP file to standard output.
The hub is selected by specifying its collision domain name (value of
.BR vstart (1)'s
.BI \-\-eth N
option or declared in
.IR lab.conf ).
.PP
.B vdump
works as a wrapper around
.BR uml_dump ,
which itself connects to the UML switch managing the
.IR DOMAIN .
The packet capture can be dumped to a file and viewed in a utility like
.BR tcpdump (8)
or
.BR wireshark (1),
or observed live (see
.BR EXAMPLES ).
The capture can safely be terminated with a keyboard interrupt signal
.RB ( Ctrl-C ).
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Miscellaneous options
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display a usage message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Show the commands being ran.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Output version information and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B NETKIT_HOME
All Netkit-JH commands require that the
.B NETKIT_HOME
variable is set the path of the directory which Netkit-JH is installed in.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following examples use
.B vdump
to capture packets from the virtual collision domain \(dqA\(dq.
The basic usage would be dumping the packets to a PCAP file for analysis later:
.nf
.IP
.BR vdump " A > capture.pcap"
.fi
.PP
.BR tcpdump (8)
can display packets live as they traverse across the hub:
.nf
.IP
.BR vdump " A | " \c
.BR tcpdump " \-r \-"
.fi
.PP
Similarly,
.BR wireshark (1)
can do the same for viewing the packets graphically:
.nf
.IP
.BR vdump " A | " \c
.BR wireshark " \-i \- \-k"
.fi
.SH AUTHORS
Netkit-JH is maintained by Adam Bromiley, Joshua Hawking,
and other important contributors who are current or graduate students of WMG,
University of Warwick.
A full list of contributors can be found in copyright notices at the top of
source files.
.PP
Netkit-JH is a fork of the now deprecated Netkit-NG,
maintained by Julien Iguchi-Cartigny of the XLIM Research Institute,
which itself is a fork of the original project (Netkit).
Netkit was written by academics at the Computer Networks Laboratory of Roma Tre
University before being abandoned in favour of Kathará,
which utilises Python and Docker instead of Bash and UML.
All iterations of Netkit have introduced important new features and upgraded
existing ones.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
To report a bug with Netkit-JH,
please create an issue with the recommended template on the project's
.UR https://github.com/netkit-jh/netkit-jh-build/issues
GitHub repository
.UE .
For a more complex bug that you know how to fix,
please consider writing a patch and sending it as a pull request to the GitHub.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Like its predecessors,
Netkit-JH is released under the terms of the GNU General Public License,
version 3 or later. For a copy of the license see the included
.I LICENSE.txt
file or, if not present,
.UR http://www.gnu.org/licenses/
.UE .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR vstart (1),
.BR wireshark (1),
.BR netkit-jh (7),
.BR tcpdump (8)
