.TH VHALT 1 2022-09-01 Linux "Netkit-JH Manual"
.SH NAME
vhalt \- halt running Netkit-JH machines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vhalt
.RI [ OPTION "]... " MACHINE ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Gracefully shut down running Netkit-JH virtual machines.
If the user wishes to retain virtual machines' filesystems
.RI ( .disk " files)"
without risk of corruption, this method should be used over
.BR vcrash (1).
Any invalid
.I MACHINE
names will be ignored.
.PP
The UML management console client,
.BR uml_mconsole ,
is used to invoke the Ctrl-Alt-Del handler of
.BR init (8).
Typically this would trigger a reboot with
.BR shutdown (8)
however the Netkit-JH filesystem has a modified
.I inittab
file which changes this behaviour to shutdown immediately.
.PP
To halt an entire Netkit-JH lab, use
.BR lhalt (1).
.SH OPTIONS
.SS General options
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-user =\fIUSERNAME\fR
Halt machines owned by a different user.
The special username
.B \-
denotes all users and will cause
.B vhalt
to shutdown the first host reported by
.IR "vlist \-\-user=\- MACHINE" .
By default, machines owned by the current user are targetted.
.SS Options affecting how machines are halted
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quick
Disable checking if machines have actually shut down.
This quickens the halt process but no warnings can be made if a machine fails
to shut down.
Unlike
.BR vcrash (1),
this does not affect how the machines shut down (i.e.,
if a machine fails to halt, running without
.B \-\-quick
will not affect the outcome).
It cannot be used in conjunction with
.BR \-\-remove\-fs .
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-remove\-fs
After halting a machine delete its filesystem
.RI ( .disk " file),
if exists.
This is incompatible with
.BR \-\-quick .
.SS Miscellaneous options
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display a usage message and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Output version information and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B NETKIT_HOME
All Netkit-JH commands require that the
.B NETKIT_HOME
variable is set the path of the directory which Netkit-JH is installed in.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I netkit.conf
.TQ
.BI NETKIT_HOME /netkit.conf.default
Netkit-JH stores its configuration settings inside a file named
.IR netkit.conf ,
which can be placed in up to three locations to change its scope.
The default settings are assigned in
.IR netkit.conf.default ;
the existence of this file is required in order to make Netkit-JH work.
See
.BR netkit.conf (5)
for information about these files.
.SH AUTHORS
.so include/authors.man
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lhalt (1),
.BR vcrash (1),
.BR vlist (1),
.BR vstart (1),
.BR netkit.conf (5)
