.TH VPACKAGE 1 2022-09-01 Linux "Netkit-JH Manual"
.SH NAME
vpackage \- manage packages on the Netkit-JH model filesystem
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vpackage
.IR COMMAND " [" OPTION "]... [" PACKAGE ]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Manage
.IR PACKAGE s
on the model Netkit-JH filesystem with
.BR apt-get (8)
or
.BR dpkg (1).
.B vpackage
Mounts the model filesystem at
.B VM_MODEL_FS
to
.B VPACKAGE_MOUNT_POINT
(both Netkit-JH configuration variables),
changes the apparent root directory to the mount point
then runs the relevant package management command before unmounting.
.PP
.B vpackage
uses a similar command-line structure to the underlying package management
commands, where the first argument is the mode of operation
.RB ( COMMAND ).
.SS Subcommands using apt-get as their underlying package management program
.TP
.B update
Synchronise package index files with their respective sources.
.TP
.B upgrade
Install the latest package versions.
.TP
.B dist\-upgrade
Upgrade and potentially remove unnecessary packages.
.TP
.BR install " \fIPACKAGE\fR..."
Install or upgrade packages and their dependencies.
.TP
.BR remove " \fIPACKAGE\fR..."
Remove packages, leaving their configuration files.
.TP
.BR purge " \fIPACKAGE\fR..."
Remove packages and their configuration files.
.TP
.BR clean
Clear out the APT cache.
.TP
.BR autoremove " (alias " auto\-remove )
Remove dependencies that are no longer needed.
.SS Subcommands using other package management programs
.TP
.B list
Run
.I "dpkg \-\-list"
to show all installed packages on the filesystem.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS General options
.TP
.BI \-d " DIR"
Mount the filesystem at
.IR DIR .
If the mount point does not exist,
.B vpackage
will try to create it.
The default location is the value of the
.B VPACKAGE_MOUNT_POINT
Netkit-JH configuration variable.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-filesystem =\fIFILE\fR
Use
.I FILE
as the filesystem to be mounted.
By default, this is the value of the
.B VM_MODEL_FS
Netkit-JH configuration variable.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-pass =\fIARG\fR
Pass
.I ARG
unaltered to the underlying package management command.
Useful for more advanced functionality which is not possible through
.BR vpackage 's
provided abstractions.
.SS Options affecting the package management
.TP
.B \-\-only\-upgrade
Do not install the selected packages, just upgrade them (if possible).
This uses
.BR apt-get (8)'s
.B \-\-only\-upgrade
option and must be used with the
.B install
subcommand.
.TP
.BR \-y ", " \-\-assume\-yes ", " \-\-yes
Automatically answer \(dqyes\(dq to all prompts provided by the package
management commands to run
.B vpackage
non-interactively.
This uses
.BR apt-get (8)'s
.B \-\-assume\-yes
option and therefore will not work with subcommands that use other package
management utilities, like
.BR dpkg (1).
.SS Miscellaneous options
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display a usage message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-just\-print ", " \-\-dry\-run ", " \-\-recon
Use
.B \-\-simulate
with the underlying package management command to show which commands would be
executed without running them.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Output version information and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B NETKIT_HOME
All Netkit-JH commands require that the
.B NETKIT_HOME
variable is set the path of the directory which Netkit-JH is installed in.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I netkit.conf
.TQ
.BI NETKIT_HOME /netkit.conf.default
Netkit-JH stores its configuration settings inside a file named
.IR netkit.conf ,
which can be placed in up to three locations to change its scope.
The default settings are assigned in
.IR netkit.conf.default ;
the existence of this file is required in order to make Netkit-JH work.
See
.BR netkit.conf (5)
for information about these files.
.SH AUTHORS
Netkit-JH is maintained by Adam Bromiley, Joshua Hawking,
and other important contributors who are current or graduate students of WMG,
University of Warwick.
A full list of contributors can be found in copyright notices at the top of
source files.
.PP
Netkit-JH is a fork of the now deprecated Netkit-NG,
maintained by Julien Iguchi-Cartigny of the XLIM Research Institute,
which itself is a fork of the original project (Netkit).
Netkit was written by academics at the Computer Networks Laboratory of Roma Tre
University before being abandoned in favour of Kathará,
which utilises Python and Docker instead of Bash and UML.
All iterations of Netkit have introduced important new features and upgraded
existing ones.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
To report a bug with Netkit-JH,
please create an issue with the recommended template on the project's
.UR https://github.com/netkit-jh/netkit-jh-build/issues
GitHub repository
.UE .
For a more complex bug that you know how to fix,
please consider writing a patch and sending it as a pull request to the GitHub.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Like its predecessors,
Netkit-JH is released under the terms of the GNU General Public License,
version 3 or later. For a copy of the license see the included
.I LICENSE.txt
file or, if not present,
.UR http://www.gnu.org/licenses/
.UE .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dpkg (1),
.BR netkit.conf (5),
.BR netkit-jh (7),
.BR apt-get (8)
