.TH LAB.DEP 5 2022-09-04 Linux "Netkit-JH Manual"
.SH NAME
lab.dep \- parallel launch configuration of a Netkit-JH lab
.SH SYNOPSIS
.I lab.dep
.SH DESCRIPTION
This page describes setting up a Netkit-JH lab with parallel startup by using
the
.I lab.dep
file.
Not only does it make the launch more efficient, since
.BR lstart (1)
can boot hosts simulatenously, it allows the user to define a boot
order\(emwhat machines are dependent on others.
.TP
.I lab.dep
It is recommended that every lab directory has a
.I lab.dep
file in the root.
There are two benefits:
.RS
.RS
.IP \[bu] 4
Parallel startup is implictly enabled.
This corresponds to using the
.B \-p
option of
.BR lstart (1);
the
.B MAX_SIMULTANEOUS_VMS
Netkit-JH configuration variable dictates how many machines can boot
simulatenously.
.IP \[bu] 4
Machines dependent on the successful boot of another machine can be declared.
.RE
.RE
.IP
Stating dependencies is important when creating a lab where a server must exist
before the clients try to use it in their boot sequence.
Rather than using a bespoke dependency manager, Netkit-JH uses 
.BR make (1).
For consistency,
.I lab.dep
uses a Make-style syntax of:
.RS
.IP
.IR target ": " dependencies ...
.RE
.IP
So the line \(dqapple: banana grape\(dq will force
.BR lstart (1)
to boot machines \(dqbanana\(dq and \(dqgrape\(dq before booting \(dqapple\(dq.
A machine is determined to have finished booting when its
.I .ready
file is created.
.IP
Comments can be added to the file with a \(dq#\(dq at the start of their line.
.SH NOTES
Unlike other configuration files, whitespace is ignored when parsing
.IR lab.dep .
This means machine hostnames cannot have whitespace in them
(which should never be an issue in any case).
.SH EXAMPLES
This example follows that described in
.BR lab.conf (5).
The
.I lab.conf
file dictates the following network topology:
.PP
.RS
.nf
                   +\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-+
                   |   router   |
                   +\- 0 \-\-\-\- 1 \-+
                      |      |
+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-+       |      | CD2
| dhcp\-server 0 \-\-\-\-\-\-+      |
+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-+       |       \\    +\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-+
                  CD1 |         \-\- 0      b      |
+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-+      /             +\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-+
|      a      0 \-\-\-\-
+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-+
.fi
.RE
.PP
The
.I .startup
files of \(dqa\(dq and \(dqb\(dq have them request an IP address from the
network's DHCP server (\(dqdhcp\-server\(dq) directly after booting.
Since this happens without user intervention,
the lab author must be assured that the DHCP server is booted before \(dqa\(dq
and \(dqb\(dq make their requests, otherwise the requests will fail.
\(dqb\(dq has a further constraint where its request will not reach the DHCP
server unless the \(dqrouter\(dq is online.
.PP
The dependency configuration file is therefore created to define a dependency
of \(dqa\(dq and \(dqb\(dq on \(dqdhcp\-server\(dq,
and an additional dependency of \(dqb\(dq on \(dqrouter\(dq:
.PP
.RS 4
.I lab.dep
.RE
.RS
.nf
a: dhcp\-server
b: dhcp\-server router
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH AUTHORS
Netkit-JH is maintained by Adam Bromiley, Joshua Hawking,
and other important contributors who are current or graduate students of WMG,
University of Warwick.
A full list of contributors can be found in copyright notices at the top of
source files.
.PP
Netkit-JH is a fork of the now deprecated Netkit-NG,
maintained by Julien Iguchi-Cartigny of the XLIM Research Institute,
which itself is a fork of the original project (Netkit).
Netkit was written by academics at the Computer Networks Laboratory of Roma Tre
University before being abandoned in favour of Kathará,
which utilises Python and Docker instead of Bash and UML.
All iterations of Netkit have introduced important new features and upgraded
existing ones.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
To report a bug with Netkit-JH,
please create an issue with the recommended template on the project's
.UR https://github.com/netkit-jh/netkit-jh-build/issues
GitHub repository
.UE .
For a more complex bug that you know how to fix,
please consider writing a patch and sending it as a pull request to the GitHub.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Like its predecessors,
Netkit-JH is released under the terms of the GNU General Public License,
version 3 or later. For a copy of the license see the included
.I LICENSE.txt
file or, if not present,
.UR http://www.gnu.org/licenses/
.UE .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lstart (1),
.BR make (1),
.BR vstart (1),
.BR lab.conf (5),
.BR netkit.conf (5),
.BR netkit-jh (7)
